Remarkably, August 2023 marked a critical milestone for the time-series research field with 2 major breakthroughs:
- TimeGPT: Nixtla unveiled TimeGPT, the first foundation AI model for time-series forecasting.
- AutoGluon–TimeSeries: Amazon published a study on AutoGluon–TimeSeries, an open-source library that generates accurate point & quantile forecasts with just 3 lines of Python code.

TimeGPT, developed by Nixtla, is a generative pre-trained transformer model specialized in prediction tasks. 
Developed by Nixtla, TimeGPT is a cutting-edge generative pre-trained transformer model dedicated to prediction tasks. 🚀 By leveraging the most extensive dataset ever – financial, weather, energy, and sales data – TimeGPT brings unparalleled time-series analysis right to your terminal! 👩‍💻👨‍💻
In seconds, TimeGPT can discern complex patterns and predict future data points, transforming the landscape of data science and predictive analytics.
https://nixtla.mintlify.app/nixtla/index.html
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03589.pdf
https://github.com/Nixtla/nixtla

AutoGluon automates machine learning tasks enabling you to easily achieve strong predictive performance in your applications. 
With just a few lines of code, you can train and deploy high-accuracy machine learning and deep learning models on image, text, time series, and tabular data.
https://auto.gluon.ai/stable/tutorials/timeseries/index.html
https://github.com/autogluon/autogluon

THUML @ Tsinghua University
TSlib is an open-source library for deep learning researchers, especially for deep time series analysis.
We provide a neat code base to evaluate advanced deep time series models or develop your model, which covers five mainstream tasks: long- and short-term forecasting, imputation, anomaly detection, and classification.
https://github.com/thuml/TimesNet
TimesNet as a task-general foundation model for time series analysis. Motivated by the multi-periodicity, TimesNet can ravel out intricate temporal variations by a modular
architecture and capture intraperiod- and interperiod-variations in 2D space by a parameter-efficient
inception block. Experimentally, TimesNet shows great generality and performance in five mainstream analysis tasks.
https://github.com/thuml/Autoformer

  
References
[1] Makridakis et al. Statistical, machine learning and deep learning forecasting methods: Comparisons and ways forward (August 2022)

[2] Ailing Zeng et al. Are Transformers Effective for Time Series Forecasting? (August 2022)

[3] Shereen Elsayed et al. Do We Really Need Deep Learning Models for Time Series Forecasting? (October 2021)

[4] Jared Kaplan et al. Scaling Laws for Neural Language Models

[5] Manuel Kunz et al. Deep Learning based Forecasting: a case study from the online fashion industry

[6] Oleksandr Shchur et al. AutoGluon–TimeSeries: AutoML for Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting
